---
title: What is data?
---

# What is personal data? What is surveillance? Forking Projects on GitHub

## Vocabulary / Jargon

**Personal data:**

**Data:**

**Table:**

**Database:**

**Server:**

**Data center:**

**Surveillance:**

**Threat Model:**

**Open Source:**

**Fork:**

**Clone:**

**Pull request:**

**Repository:**

**License:**

**Push:**

## Revisit community agreements
Did these work for everyone? 

Any to add? 

Any to change?

## Definitions
#### 10 mins - 4-4:10

## Threat Modeling
#### 40 mins - 4:10-4:50

[https://ssd.eff.org/](https://ssd.eff.org/)

This is a process that people or companies, or organizations go thorugh to get more specific about what kind of practices they need to start doing to keep their information secure. It’s not a matter of “secure” vs. “insecure,” everyone needs different things depending on their “threat model.” So we’ll do this, which is often used for people like journalists, who have sources that trust that their identity won’t be revealed, or companies with lots of financial information, or activists who might be targeted by the FBI or other activists, but can be used for anyone. Then, we’ll do another version that’s geared more towards personal data. You can decide which one you like more. 

- What do I want to protect?
- Who do I want to protect it from?
- How bad are the consequences if I fail?
- How likely is it that I will need to protect it?
- How much trouble am I willing to go through to try to prevent potential consequences?
- How is your “adversary” going to try to access your “assets”?
- Then, what’s your strategy for protecting it?

### Facilitation
- First do a threat model briefly as a large group
- Pick something analog: for example, do the students have something valuable in their home? In their backpack? A photo they don’t want someone to see?
- Brainstorm scenarios both from interns, and scenarios we can imagine
- A girl who likes to party but is applying to jobs and doesn’t want these employers to get the wrong impressions
- A Black Lives Matter activist
- An undocumented immigrant
- A person with a bank account
- Then, pass out notecard with scenarios and have interns get into 1s 2s or 3s and answer all the questions together
- Come back to the whole group, provide some extra tools, act as the adversary, then let them revise their strategy

## Data Detox
#### 30 min - 4:50-5:20
[https://datadetox.myshadow.org/](https://datadetox.myshadow.org/) 

- Do this alone or in pairs
- For sections that don’t apply to you (e.g. ones about having a google account), skip them

## Share https://tosdr.org/ 

## Open Source
#### 10 mins - 5:25-5:35 

## Making a Github Pages Site
#### 20 mins - 5:35-5:55

## Markdown
#### 10 mins - 5:55-6:05

## Tutorial: How to fork a project on Github
#### 30 mins - 6:05-7:35
